# ICoSC

**The Icelandic Confusion Set Corpus (ICoSC) is available under a CC-BY licence for anyone wanting to run their own experiment or replicate ours. It was compiled during the course of three months in 2019 by Steinunn Rut Friðriksdóttir and Anton Karl Ingason of the language technology department in the University of Iceland.**


## **Content:**
The ICoSC consists of the following categories of confusion sets, selected for their linguistic properties as homophones, separated orthographically by a single letter. The categories are:

•**197  pairs  containing  y/i (leyti _’extent’_ / leiti _’search’_)**  

•**150 pairs containing ý/í (sýn _’vision’_ / sín _’theirs (possessive reflexive)’_)** 

•**1203 pairs containing nn/n (forvitinn _’curious(masc.)’_ / forvitin _’curious (fem.)’_)**

•**8 pairs commonly confused by Icelandic speakers** 

•**24 pairs containing hv/kv (hvað _’what’_ / kvað _’chanted’_)**

•**42 pairs containing rð/ðr (veðri _’weather’_ / verði _’will become’_)**

•**110 pairs containing rr/r (klárri _’smart’_ / klári _’smart’_)**

•**25 pairs containing f/ff (kafi _'underwater'_ / kaffi _'coffee'_)**

•**87 pairs containing g/gg (vegi _'roads'_ / veggi _'walls'_)**

•**113 pairs containing s/ss (kysi _'would choose'_ / kyssi _'kiss'_)**

•**161 pairs containing k/kk (taka _'to take'_ / takka _'button'_)**

•**34 pairs containing p/pp (tapa _'loose'_ / tappa _'cap/plug'_)**

•**456 pairs containing l/ll (vel _'well'_ / vell _'gush'_)**

•**38 pairs containing m/mm (ama _'bother'_ / amma _'grandmother'_)**

•**401 pairs containing t/tt (ættu _'should'_ / ætu _'would eat'_)**

•**261 pairs containing a/á (láta _'put'_ / lata _'lazy'_)**

•**92 pairs containing e/é (lék _'played'_ / lek _'leaks'_)**

•**290 pairs containing i/í (sín _'theirs (possesive)'_ / sin _'tendon'_)**

•**189 pairs containing o/ó (góðum _'good'_ / goðum _'(heathen) gods'_)**

•**100 pairs containing u/ú (skútum _'sailboats'_ / skutum _'shot'_)**

•**582 pairs containing g/k (leika _'to play'_ / leiga _'rent'_)**

•**62 pairs containing gg/kk (bakka _'go backwards'_ / bagga _'bale'_)**

•**162 pairs containing p/b (best _'best'_ / pest _'illness'_)**

•**19 pairs containing pp/bb (pabbi _'dad'_ / pappi _'cardboard'_)**

•**432 pairs containing t/d (myndir _'pictures'_ / myntir _'coins/currencies'_)**

•**115 pairs containing tt/dd (fædd _'born (feminine)'_ / fætt _'born (neutral)'_)**

•**314 pairs containing v/f (fara _'leave'_ / vara _'lips'_)**

Included in the ICoSC are spreadsheets containing all collected confusion sets of each category and their frequencies. The spreadsheets are organized so that for each set, the total frequency of each candidate is calculated  along  with the frequency of each possible PoS tag for that candidate. The seventh and eight column of the tables contain binary values referring to whether the confusion set is grammatically disjoint (all PoS tags differ for the two candidates) or grammatically identical (all PoS tags are identical for the two candidates). The final column shows the frequency of the less frequent candidate of the set which can be used to determine which sets are viable in an experiment. Also included are text files containing the list of words from each category. As the n/nn examples are by far the most frequent confusion sets, the corpus also includes a word list for the 55 most frequent sets. All files have UTF-8 encoding.



## **Code:**

•**gen_totalfreqs_totalsents.py** generates a TSV file (allfreq.tsv) containing the word form, lemma, POS tag and frequency of each word in the Icelandic Gigaword Corpus, as well as a CSV file (all_sent.csv) containing all sentences from the IGC as lists. It is dependent on the IGC. 

•**gen_wordlist.py** generates a txt file containing a list of viable confusion sets for each category. It is dependent on the wordlist provided by the Database of Modern Icelandic Inflection (ordmyndalisti.txt), the frequency list from the Icelandic Gigaword Corpus (allfreq.tsv) and the CSV file with all sentence examples (all_

•**gen_spreads.py** takes the txt file generated by gen_wordlist as an input and outputs a CSV file, containing frequency tables for the confusion sets of that category. The tables are organized so that for each set, the total frequency of each candidate is calculated along with the frequency of each possible PoS tag for that candidate. The seventh and eight columns of the tables contain binary values referring to whether the confusion set is grammatically disjoint or grammatically identical. The final column shows the frequency of the less frequent candidate of the set which can be used to determine which sets are viable in an experiment. 

•**gen_sentence_examples.py** is dependent on the sentences from the IGC (all_sent.csv) generated by gen_totalfreqs_totalsents. It takes the wordlist generated by gen_wordlist as an input, and outputs a txt file containing all the sentence examples for each word, separated by a double semi colon and the word itself.

•**All programs ending with "grammatical"** are dependent on the txt file containing all sentence examples for the chosen category (for example y_sent.txt) and a file containing all words from that category meant to be checked. Takes a word pair (for example _leyti/leiti_) and looks for the sentence examples containing each candidate. Creates a feature vector for each example using grammatical rules and generates a data matrix from all examples, which is then split into test and train data. 

•**All programs ending with "bagofwords"** do the same thing using the bag of words method for feature extraction. Results are generated using 10-fold cross validation. The classifiers are: Decision tree, multilayer-perceptron and logistic regression. 
